# Fake-News-Detection-1-00
Summary : Developed an artificial intelligence algorithm that can rate a claim as TRUE, PARTLY TRUE or FALSE and provide evidence to support the rating, all without human intervention. Implemented several models and chose two best performing algorithms : One focused on utilization of Logistic Regression and another model was implemented using Neural networks

With the development of online media channels such as social media (Facebook, Twitter, WhatsApp), articles, blogs, and e-newspapers, fake news detection has recently attracted the public's and scholars' attention. According to a recent study, social media platforms are responsible for 50% of all traffic to fake news websites. Because the majority of adults in the United States (62 percent) rely on online media channels for news information and sharing, detecting false news content across all online sources has become a serious requirement. Thousands of incidents have been documented in which the spread of fake news has had an economic, political, social, and emotional influence on society, and it has the potential to have far-reaching consequences.The false story that a bomb exploded in the White House, injuring Barack Obama, prompted a drop in the country's stock market. Similar effects were seen in the 2016 elections, when fake news about Pope Francis endorsing Donald Trump was extensively spread, perhaps influencing election results.
The following are the most difficult challenges in identifying fake news: First and foremost, fake news is published with the purpose to deceive readers, which makes it difficult? to detect something just based on its content Second, the amount of data generated by users on social media is massive, multimodal, and mainly anonymous and loud. Third, social media users come from a variety of backgrounds, have varying tastes or demands, and use the platform for a variety of reasons. Finally, the expense of creating material for social media profiles is minimal. As a result, it becomes a simple target for fraudulent accounts, such as social bots and cyborg users, to spread bogus news swiftly to wider audiences.

Several Natural Language Processing (NLP) models for detecting bogus news material have been implemented in this research. Our models were trained and tested using the Data Cup false news detection challenge dataset. We conducted many exploratory investigations to better understand and identify the linguistic qualities that are most prevalent in fake news, and we created fake news detectors based on those linguistic traits. We tested many false news detection methods to see how they performed and compare their accuracy.
